[faq] Added 'advanced osm editing' section (#229)
organicmaps/organicmaps.github.io: content/faq/editing/advanced-map-editing/index.md

---
title: How can I do more advanced map editing?
description: "Tutorial for editing OpenStreetMap with more advanced tools like ID, Go Map and Vespucci"

taxonomies:
  faq: ["Map Editing"]

extra:
  order: 40
---

Organic Maps includes a simple and easy-to-use editor that you can use to edit the map. The editor is, however, limited and only allows to add simple point features, that means no building outlines, roads, lakes, towns, etc. If you want to change something that can not be edited with the build-in editor, this is the right FAQ page to read.

As all map data used in Organic Maps comes from [OpenStreetMap.org (OSM)](https://www.openstreetmap.org), you can directly update the map there. Your modifications will then be included into Organic Maps with the next map update.

## OpenStreetMap Editors

> For editing OSM, there are several options. If you have a desktop PC at hand, it is recommended that you use the ID Editor. The editor is easy to use for beginners, and a bigger screen, mouse, and keyboard make editing easier. The editor runs in your browser, so no installation is required.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For editing OSM, there are several options. If you have a laptop or desktop computer at hand, it's better to use the [ID Editor](https://www.openstreetmap.org/edit) that runs in your browser. The ID Editor is easy for beginners, and a bigger screen, mouse, and keyboard make map editing easier.
```

> If you don't have a desktop PC at hand, you can use the mobile editors Go Map for ios or Vespucci for Android. Go Map is easy to use for beginners, while Vespucci targets more advanced users.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For advanced map editing from a mobile device, use [Go!! Map](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/go-map/id592990211) for iOS or [Vespucci](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=de.blau.android) for Android. Go Map is easy for beginners, while Vespucci targets more advanced users.

For simpler edits with more fun, you may also try [Every Door app](https://every-door.app/) for iOS and Android and [StreetComplete app](https://streetcomplete.app/) for Android.
```

> 
> Please pick one of the three editors to proceede.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Following succinct OM style in FAQ is beneficial too )

#### ID Editor
For editing OpenStreetMap with ID follow these steps:

1. Create a new account or log in at [OpenStreetMap.org](https://www.openstreetmap.org)

> 2. Browse to the location you want to edit on OpenStreetMap.org and click *Edit*

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Browse to the location you want to edit on OpenStreetMap.org and click *Edit* at the top
```

3. *Start the Walkthrough* and follow the short tutorial that explains the ID Editor
4. Edit the map
5. Upload your changes

That's it, you are now part of the OSM community. Wait for the next Organic Maps update to see the changes in your favorite map app.

#### Go Map
For editing OpenStreetMap with Go Map follow these steps:

1. Download the app from the [App Store](https://apps.apple.com/de/app/go-map/id592990211)

> 2. Follow the detailed [LearnOSM tutorial](https://learnosm.org/en/mobile-mapping/gomap/)

Reviewer: Can these tutorial hints be embedded above, where these editors are referenced? Or maybe a separate section "Tutorials" would be better?

Author: :+1: I moved the tutorial hints to the editor overview

#### Vespucci
For editing OpenStreetMap with Vespucci follow these steps:

1. Download the app from the [Play Store](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=de.blau.android) or from [F-Droid](https://f-droid.org/en/packages/de.blau.android/).
2. Follow the detailed [LearnOSM tutorial](https://learnosm.org/en/mobile-mapping/vespucci/)

> ## What happens with my edits?

Reviewer: Need to clarify when edits appear in Organic Maps

Once you press *Upload* your changes are instantly added to the public OSM database. So be considerate when editing. Your e-mail is not published, but other people will be able to see your OSM user name. 

As OSM offers the possibility to discuss changes, you might get questions about your edits from other OSM contributors. You will be notified about this via the e-mail address you used for registering your OSM account. As OSM is a community project that builds on collaboration you should always answer such questions.

## Community and Wiki

> OpenStreetMap is a community. If you need help you can ask in the [OSM Forum](https://community.openstreetmap.org/) or take a look at the [OSM Wiki](https://wiki.openstreetmap.org/) documentation.

Reviewer: Any live discussion channels? List of telegram/other messenger groups? Remember, our audience is not a geeky one.

Author: The help and support page in the OSM Forum is the main place for questions. But there are also other channels (see: https://wiki.openstreetmap.org/wiki/Contact_channels). I haven't tried out any of them though.

## Tags - How the OSM datamodel works

The OpenStreetMap database contains Objects like Nodes, Ways, Areas, and Relations that abstract from real-world features. These Objects have Attributes, so-called Tags to further describe them. A Tag is a Key-Value combination. 

As this sounds more complicated than it is we will give an example:
A Restaurant is e.g. mapped as a Note or Area with the Tag ``` amenity=restaurant```. Further Tags like ```cousine=*``` or ```opening_hours=*``` can then be used for further details.

Note that the ID editor hides the internal data structure from the users to be more beginner-friendly. But for reading the Wiki documentation heaving a brief overview of the data structure is helpful.
In the ID Editor, you can see the Tags that ID is hiding from you by expanding the *Tags* section in the *Edit feature* side panel.

## OSM Notes

> If you don't have time or the problem is too complicated for editing the OSM data yourself OSM Notes ([Wiki](https://wiki.openstreetmap.org/wiki/Notes)) are the way to go. You can place such a note in the location of the map error and describe the problem in detail. Other OSM volunteers can then help and solve the issue. You will get e-mail notifications via your OSM account in case they have further questions or the OSM Note is solved.

Reviewer: It's better to leave an empty line after each header.

1. Create a new account or log in at [OpenStreetMap.org](https://www.openstreetmap.org)
    > You can also open anonymous Notes, but this is not recomended as you won't get notified when the issue is solved or there are further questions.

> 2. Zoom to the map location on [OpenStreetMap.org](https://www.openstreetmap.org) and press *Add a note to the map* (second icon from the bottom on the right menue). Then drag the blue map marker to the exact location.

Reviewer: Is this numbered list properly rendered by Zola?

Author: Added &nbsp; to have more space between the quote and the next list element

Reviewer: Please don't do that. No visual formatting with the content. It should be done with CSS, I've pushed a fix.
